And this is Colossians beginning in chapter four, verse two, continuing earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with Thanksgiving.
Meanwhile praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains, that I may make and manifest as I ought to speak.
Walking wisdom toward those who are outside Redeeming the time now.
Here's our key verse for today verse six Let your speech always be with grace seasoned with salt disappeared That you may know how you ought to answer each one This is the word of God for the people of God Amen, they got at his blessing to the reading of his words.
You may be seated
Our theme verse back up on the screen for you.
Yesterday morning, Christine and I were going through some old emails.
I mean, from way back when we first met.
And we're hadn't met face to face yet, but we're talking and sending emails back and forth.
And we're just kind of nostalgic and watching how the relationship developed.
And then over the years, how things have kind of matured and changed in the conversation.
It's interesting, if you've ever done that, or gone back and looked at things, how memory's not quite right on how it actually happened, or what was the context, and you've just kind of got a general idea of it.
And we were going back and we said, I don't remember that.
I don't remember that either.
Oh, I forgot about that.
But one thing was consistent.
And that is that in every conversation,
I always felt safe and that she was like coming home.
Now, for me, I had lots of relationships before her, but none of them ever felt like coming home.
There was no home from me.
I didn't even know what home was.
And when I finally found out what it was, I didn't want to let it go.
I think people have different kinds of presences.
If you know what I mean when you're in with them, you can discern it real quickly.
So a person you can laugh around, you feel more open with and honest with, you kind of pick up on that.
And that's kind of a relationship that you just feel safe, like you're able to be who you are.
And then there's this kind of relationship, and you know how real quick where their tone's harsh, they seem kind of judgmental, and you can't really
Say anything without feeling like, I wonder if they're going to jump at me for saying that.
And you know immediately you don't really feel safe.
There's people like that as well and it doesn't take long to figure it out.
You know that kind of person when you're with them some kind of tightens up inside and you go, you kind of guarded the whole time and when you walk out you go, I can breathe again.
You ever had that in a relationship with something?
I don't mean like
a good relationship.
I mean, connecting with someone or being around them made you feel that way.
If it's me, I'm sorry.
But their tone can be sharp, criticism all the time.
There's tension, it's thick the whole time.
I'm going to get into a story here in a little bit about that.
But in my life, I walked away from a lot of toxic relationships really quickly because I didn't feel safe.
I wouldn't even let the relationship get started because I'd already see warning signs and I'd been bitten too many times to say, yes, let's try this.
With Christine, I never felt unsafe and never had.
She's still home and will always be home.
That's just one of those things that happens.
And so safe and healthy relationships got me thinking.
What would a safe and healthy church that feels like home be like?
What kind of atmosphere would it be?
What kind of a presence would we need to have to make sure our church feels like home to anybody who walks in?
And as I thought about that, the church is healthy, it's positioned to grow.
I've been in a lot of different worship services over the years, and I've seen a lot of churches where I didn't feel at home, and I've been in churches where I have.
And I remember this one church in particular
Down in Florida, I'll go down there for a few weeks every January.
And I go to the same church because I liked it.
But they did something there that I'd never see any other church do.
They had this big old eelor sitting on the stage next to the podium.
I mean, these things, you can't miss it.
It was like three feet, one of the biggest ones they could find.
And they stuck it there and I was curious about it, but they put an explanation in the bulletin why it was there.
They said Eor was there because of a conversation that he had had with Winnie the Pooh on a blustery day.
You might remember the story where Eor got swept up in the storm and started going down this creek on his back, kind of floating his demise.
And who is on the bridge going, oh Eor, that's good to see you.
And Eor kind of responds like this.
Well, you know,
It's not a problem I could use some rescue.
And so Eor was on their stage to remind everybody we all need rescuing.
Jesus saves us from our sin and he helps us and heals us.
And he called his church like a hospital.
And he said we are a spiritual hospital and everybody here is one level of triage or another depending on how serious their situation is.
But everybody has something God can heal.
And I thought, man, that's great.
I liked that.
And every time I went, I'd see or it was near Disney.
So I thought at first when I thought, well, it's Florida, Disney, yeah, but nothing to do with Disney.
It was all about Jesus and the healing culture they wanted to provide to people.
And the church was growing because of that mindset.
Like I said, I was safe there and I went as often as I could.
When we go to church, you know, we don't just come to a service.
We have an expectation.
We have an expectation of what the atmosphere is going to be like.
We know pretty much what people are going to say or how we're going to feel and we like that.
And we know that because it's comfortable and it feels like home.
And it's interesting to me, when we walk in, no matter what's going on on the outside world, when we walk in here, our expectation hopes change because we don't got here.
And there are people who love us here, and we're cared for.
And in this place, we find that hope.
And out there, we don't know that we'll find that in a work a day world around us.
What I'm talking about
is atmosphere.
That expectation that when you walk in, there will be smiling faces of people you know and friends and family and relatives pretty much everywhere in the place.
And that's a good feeling for me.
I know it is for most of us, if not all of us.
So when a church starts to grow and new people start coming in, it can reveal underlying tones that aren't resolved as they are met ahead of time.
So we'll talk about some of those tones on how it can create and keep a good atmosphere even when folks come in that are new or have never been a part of our culture here.
The kindness that people meet at the door needs to be expressed throughout the entire culture, not just at the door.
We can never become unsafe.
We need to always be a safe place for people.
Now, let me tell you this.
A safe church doesn't mean it's soft.
We talk about sin, but we don't browbeat about it.
We talk about holiness, but we don't weaponize it and tell people, you're not holy, you need to shape up your ship out.
We don't do that.
That's not safe.
What we do is a little different than that.
A safe church is grace-filled and truth-centered.
People can grow without being shamed.
They can confess without being crushed.
They can be healed without being watched and they can serve without being used and they can belong without being labeled.
That's a healthy and safe church.
We have that here.
I want you to know that we have that here.
This is not like we got to fix this thing.
We have it.
You just need to be aware that we have it and keep doing it and doing it well.
Because that's important.
I'm so thankful for that too because we would have a whole different sermon today if that wasn't true.
But we have to be intentional about what we do when being safe as a church.
It starts with leadership.
It doesn't mean just me.
It means anybody in a position of leadership sets the culture of the tone.
And everybody here in leadership sets that tone with love and kindness and grace and spirit of cooperation.
It is such a wonderful thing to see.
And everybody in the church comes together, helps each other, and works together over and over again, because about family, it's about community.
And when people have sensed that,
And they see that it's real.
They want to be a part of that.
And so we got to continue to be intentional about being that way.
As we position for growth, when people come in, we need to acknowledge the atmosphere that we have.
And I'll tell you why.
Because you, atmospheres are intentional.
They're built.
You can't assume it's going to continue without being intentional about it.
And how do we focus it?
How do we make it happen?
The Apostle Paul says in Ephesians 4.29 the following words.
Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers.
Or as it says on this screen, let your speech always be with grace, season with salt, that you may know how to answer each person with grace and with truth.
The words Paul uses, both here in Colossians, and when I just read out of Ephesians 4.29, are words of construction.
They're words that are tools to help us with construction.
Now, part of construction sometimes requires taking down what doesn't belong.
Turn down a stronghold, for example.
And if you're not sure what I mean by that,
A stronghold could be something that's there that you're protecting that doesn't need to be there because it doesn't serve a use anymore.
Could you imagine if people say, well, I love that old life way building in 99 buffet and whatever else it was before that and after that.
And when it was Spirit of Halloween, I really love that building.
So don't tear it down.
Just put bass pro shops in there.
Could you imagine?
That would be a strong mobile.
What do we do?
we want to put something brand new in its place.
As soon as it was announced, the next day that thing's almost all the way gone.
So you know, they're going to put a new foundation, a solid foundation for something brand new.
You can't build in something that doesn't serve the purpose for what's going to be there.
So our words, when we see something that we need to help grow, sometimes we have to look at strongholds and help remove them.
Now we're not telling folks, you know you've got a strong hold, you need to fix that.
It's not like that.
What we're saying is we believe God has something better for you.
We want to help you figure what that is and won't put you along that journey.
And I think that's the culture we have here.
And I think that's what we talk about when we talk about helping people and loving people well.
This is something that I don't have to
Say, we ought to do this.
I'm saying we continue to do this and continue to do it well with good intention in our heart.
Because our words, our speech is rarely neutral.
It's either building or it's tearing down.
Now, the tearing down in this sentence could be destructive, but sometimes, like I said, some things have to be removed, torn down to build something good.
But there's always the idea that if I'm going to tear something down, I want to put something better in its place.
Otherwise, if I'm tearing down something with my words, with no antenna putting something better in its place, I don't need to say it.
Because that will not help someone to grow.
So if you want to know how to tell what the atmosphere of a church is, there's an easy way.
Listen to a conversation in the parking lot before or after service.
What are people talking about?
Are they talking about what people wore?
Are they talking about whether the preacher was too fat or too short?
What are they talking about, right?
They might be talking about leadership.
They might be talking about somebody who's new came to church that they are about other churches or something like that, not about how people struggle.
And if they're talking about struggles of people, are they talking about solutions?
Are they talking about the problem?
the person is.
And you get to understand the culture from those conversations.
So we listen to see if they're seeking solutions to a situation and ministry opportunity.
Are they just talking about issues that they can't do anything about and refuse to?
That's how you tell a culture of a church.
It's not the sermon.
Atmospheres aren't created by sermons alone They're created by habits and habits become conversations and conversations create culture and mindsets And I'm so Encouraged by the culture of our church here because after services we're talking about what we want to do for God We were talking about what we want to do to help people how they can minister and
And that excites me because I've been in places before where after service we're going, what do you do about them folks?
And that conversation was just this heartening.
But here we're not doing that.
We're saying, hey, how can we help people?
What can we do?
What can we do that we're doing now to do it even better?
How can we reach more?
Those kind of conversations are a church that wants to grow.
It has a ministry mindset, and this church is just like that.
I think, as I've said several times this year, we're on the precipice of God positioning us for a great moment and season of growth.
We have the right mindset, all we have to do is get ready for that.
And that's what this year is all about.
And what these sermons are about is giving us a line to make sure we're all
together on the same page.
The Apostle Paul says our words must impart grace to the hearers.
Maybe season was salt, but it isn't just preached, it's transmitted.
In the message, the verse in Ephesians 4-29 says, watch the way you talk, say only what helps, because each word
is a gift.
Treat each word you say as a gift to someone else, as a blessing.
It'll change what you said.
And the reason we want to be seasoned with salt and with grace is because of what Paul says in Ephesians 4, 15 speak the truth and love.
Truth without love wounds.
It's soft.
No, I'm sorry, it's harsh.
love without truth weakens and is soft truth without love becomes harshness and love without truth becomes compromise enabling even a safe church does not celebrate sin oh it's okay go ahead and sin God's got more grace and just keep doing what you're doing you know God will forgive you that's not what we do but we also don't browbeat
and crush those who are sitting.
We call them the repentance and transformation in Jesus Christ.
And then we're going to walk alongside them and help them do that.
We're not going to tell them they've got a problem.
They need to fix it.
We're going to tell them we're part of the solution.
We also don't water down holiness.
We don't demand and crush and beat people over it and weaponize.
Say, you got to be holy tonight.
I don't know why you're here.
You don't know how to talk in church, you don't need to be here.
I've heard that before in other churches.
Listen, folks need to learn some way and we're to disciple people in the way of Christ, not expect people who've never known to know.
And that's one of the things we learn, isn't it?
Is how to walk in the faith.
How to walk like Jesus walked.
And who of us knows exactly how to do that?
None of us know exactly.
And so we've learned together, don't we?
Jesus came full of grace and truth.
When someone tells you the truth without love, it kind of makes you draw back and hide.
That was my dad.
I remember, I don't remember what I did, but I remember what he said.
I just remember being mad at what he said, and he said this, son, in my house, if you don't respect my rules, I can charge rent and room board if you don't appreciate my rules.
I went to work that day and I wrote down a little note.
I don't think I have it anymore, but I said this, my dad just told me I may be starting to have to pay room and board, and I'm mad about that.
And maybe I'm not thinking too clearly, but I'm really mad right now that my dad said that.
My dad would always tell me what he wanted, but he didn't do it out of love.
My mother just the opposite.
She didn't know how to show forth truth.
She showed a bunch of grace and love.
Give you an example.
I was, I don't know what grade I was probably fourth grade.
And one day I was in my
Bedroom in the parsnage.
Now listen, we were in the Methodist parsnage, okay?
And one day I bumped the wall and I saw under the wallpaper I hated my wallpaper was pink flowers and I saw a different color under there and I said oh I might like that so I proceeded to start peeling The wallpaper of the wall where I started that nice little bit you can't put a bang on let's go ahead and
So I started peeling in my mother walks in, and she sees these strips of wallpaper partially torn up the wall, and she doesn't know what to do.
I mean, she's so flustered, she starts to cry.
And I don't like pink.
I don't like the pink flowers.
This is better.
And she just so upset, but she doesn't punish me.
She says, someone figure it out.
She didn't tell me the truth.
This is the person.
Yeah, I know that.
I live here.
You're just kidding.
I know it's the part.
She goes, but you just destroyed a partial.
I said, no, no.
It looks better.
They shouldn't have put pink on there and gave it to a boy.
And it didn't help.
So she didn't punish me.
But later.
Came home to a pink wall.
And we would go camping with the church folks a couple of weeks later.
My mother told them about it.
So she's spreading all this stuff about how her son was vandalizing the church house.
And so there was no truth in her action, but there was no punishment either.
There was just, well, I love you, so I'm not gonna punish you.
You just do what you want, but I'm gonna do some stuff later.
And you're gonna regret having done it for that.
But that was my mother.
So I had one side dad, one side mob, I often wished to get together and get the love and truth together so I'd have the knack or representation of what it was supposed to be like.
So folks, if you haven't learned anything, don't peel the paper to Parsonage.
That was what I learned from that.
That's about it.
But if you understand, love without truth is shallow.
Because I didn't have consequence what I did wrong when my mom found out about it.
The truth wrapped in love invites healing.
Because truth wrapped in love says, hey, listen son, this is what you can do to be better in my home.
Or, hey son, you got consequence.
You're gonna have to pay for this to be fixed.
You have to work.
Do some extra work and you're gonna have to buy this.
But none of that.
But when it's together,
There's healing.
There's understanding.
There's growth.
It's not condemnation.
It's transformation that we're after.
And we need that culture.
That kind of invitation feels safe.
Neither of my parents were safe.
They both loved me.
They just did it in different ways.
And neither one was consistent with love and truth.
So what we learned when we
The kind of church in a safe culture is that forgiveness is what keeps the doors in the house open and safe.
In Ephesians chapter 4 verse 32 it says, forgive as Christ forgave.
Offences and misunderstandings are going to happen.
It's just part of the world.
It's part of humanity.
We're all going to do something or say something that
Oh, I made a mistake or they misunderstood me and then tension rises.
That's going to happen.
The question is whether we are willing to forgive quickly and deeply and resolve it so that it's no longer an issue affecting the culture when they arise.
A safe place doesn't mean it doesn't ever hurt that there's never a problem.
It means we have a healing culture
Once we understand there's a hurt, we're a hostel and some of those things may triage to higher up.
Here's the fact about a safe place and this is the message.
You can be broken and still loved.
You can be bad and still be graced still and accepted.
You can be wounded and cared for.
You can feel who you are
And what you are is lovable and also the cross can transform it.
That's what the same culture does.
It invites the transforming work it got into it.
And what happens in that kind of culture is it creates staying power.
In Colossians chapter 3 verses 12 through 15, Paul tells us to fill in tender mercies, kindness, humility, maintenance, long suffering, forgiveness, and above all,
love.
People grow where they feel safe enough to be real.
There's a lot of places where you can't talk about your struggles because then they think there's something wrong with you.
There is something wrong with us.
Where people born in the Zen.
But if we say there's nothing wrong with people going, oh you're fine.
You're welcome here.
Well the fact of the matter is if you're a healing place
and your hospital, you know, everybody needs triage.
Everybody has something wrong with them.
And that's expected for us to acknowledge it.
So God can heal us, to transform us as we are, not as we wish we would be, but who we are to God called us to be.
That transforming work happens when you feel safe.
But if you feel like, I can't talk about that, they're going to think something's wrong with me.
Well, there is.
There's something wrong with all of us.
And if we can't talk about how can we ever get healed by people who love us?
That's why we're saved.
That's why we need that atmosphere and that culture to remain.
When compassion and humility become normal, people stop performing and putting masks on and start being transformed.
That's a fact.
That's a truth.
It's one of the reasons celebrate recovery is so powerful because we know when someone says, I don't have any problems, we say there's something wrong with you, you're in denial.
But when they say, I got something wrong with me that we all say welcome home.
Me too.
Let's find a healing together.
We all need it.
We don't got any room to say if somebody else has a problem, they therefore they aren't a problem.
We all have problems.
We find them the way to Jesus together.
That's what a church is.
That's why the church culture is so important to be a place of safety and feel like you're okay to come home there.
And when you find that, you don't want to leave.
Christine is my safe place.
She's my home.
I don't question that.
It's hard to explain how comforting that is to know no matter what the world says, I can bring it to her and tell her.
I can be who I am and crazy as it may be or silly as it may be and she'll laugh at me or she'll say, yeah, I understand.
But not condemn.
We've had enough condemning.
We need the freedom to be loved and grown.
See a reconciled church will reconcile by the true grace and love of Jesus Christ becomes a witness of the reconciling work that you can do for others.
In 2 Corinthians 5 verses 18 and 19 God gave us a ministry of reconciliation that as we've been reconciled we help others find reconciliation also.
A safe
Church isn't just comfortable and feel like home.
It's credible for the work of God.
It's being done there.
When the atmosphere is protected, the unity there is very visible.
Everybody's all in on loving and caring.
And the safe church forgiveness is normal.
It's standard operation procedure like it is for Christ and who He calls.
humility is attractive in a safe church.
We're not saying, we're so glad you're here to grace us.
You're graced by our presence, but rather, we're so thankful you came.
Come be a part of us and experience God together in the love and ministry we do together.
And grace in that kind of situation is absolutely believable.
I hear churches sometimes talk about how important grace is, but the church is cold.
And because of this kind of grace God offers, I don't want it.
That's not the atmosphere we needed.
You see, the gospel isn't just a message to a safe church.
It's an ecosystem.
It's the way we do things.
Our guiding force is the grace of God.
Our stories
are not what we tell about what other people should be doing with their lives and fixing.
Our stories about what God redeemed us from and saved us to do and to call other people to join us in God's redeeming, transforming, work.
And there's a practical framework for that.
I call it the safe filter for how we speak.
So before we speak, we run it through
this across it called safe as the F.E.
And the S says, is it scriptural?
Should be.
Is it?
The A is accurate.
Is it true?
Is it accurate?
Is it mixed with some slack to it?
They've added to it.
Is it faith building?
That's the F. Is it building up someone's faith?
And a fourth one is E, edifying, safe.
So is it scriptural?
Is it accurate?
Is it faith building?
Does it edify somebody?
If it fails, those don't say it.
It doesn't help.
Your word is not a gift.
It becomes censorship, and that's not discipleship.
So how do we do this?
How do we keep the culture safe?
What kind of things can we do?
Well, let's look for ways to share our hope in the story God's worked in our lives with others.
We keep talking about what God did for us because other people want to know that you can do the same for them.
Another thing we can do is to, when we hear gossip, to join in.
But to join in like this.
So, the outfit they're wearing, you know, you're saying something about it.
Well, let's find out if they can afford a better one.
Let's give them one.
Maybe they don't know.
Maybe they don't understand our culture.
Maybe they don't understand.
Maybe they can't afford better.
Let's come alongside and let's talk to them.
Not about them to them.
Whatever the Gossip's about saying, this is an opportunity for ministry because there's something wrong because that's what Gossip's about.
It's never about good stuff.
So if something's going on as juicy, say, hey, where's the ministry opportunity here?
Not, oh yeah, tell me more.
Let's see what God says.
And Gossip becomes a way to open doors to healing.
And we forgive quickly and not only quickly but deeply.
So we set the example and then show that example by doing it verbally.
I'm forgiving.
I'm forgiving you.
And let's welcome back each other into relationship.
Make room for new people.
Even if it's next to you, you know, some folks still believe the United Methodist Church folks own their puke.
Did you know that?
Back in the day, you may recall this, people bought their pew.
And it was their pew.
And someone sat in it and they got offended.
We don't own the pew we sit in now.
We sit in it because we're habit people.
But if someone comes in and they feel awkward, say, hey, would you like to sit with me?
Yeah.
You don't mind?
Well, even if I do mind, I'm going to let you.
Right?
We're creating a culture of welcome and be a safe person, you know.
Let people know that you and our church are places where we are 4-H all the way.
4-H, you know what that is?
I'm not talking about that, you know, fair stuff in the group that used, I don't know if it's still around or not, but I'm talking about the 4-H of church and that is that we are all about help, hope,
healing and harvesting.
We are here to help, we offer hope, we don't love God's healing, and we reap a harvest together.
That's what a church is about, being 4-H. And I think we do that well.
And every way we can do it better is another way God says, I want to bring more people to you because you're being faithful.
Would you pray with me?
Heavenly Father, help our church to be an everlasting refuge where people can grow without shame, can confess without being crushed and healed without being watched, guard our words, purify the tone.
If there's any spirit of gossip or criticism and division, break it now.
Let the harmony of truth and love live together in this house, your house.
Make each one here a safe place.
and convict us where we are not, that all the glory and honor would be yours and yours alone in the name of Jesus.
Amen.